Consul/CE-571: Consul snapshot agent on Kubernetes (#2729)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/consul/v2.0.x/content/docs/deploy/server/k8s/snapshot-agent.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Install Consul Snapshot agent on Kubernetes
description: >-
  You can use the Consul Snapshot agent to take periodic snapshots of Consul deployments on Kubernetes for backup purposes. Learn how to install the agent on Kubernetes.
---

# Install Consul Snapshot agent on Kubernetes

> <EnterpriseAlert />

Reviewer: Recommend moving the Enterprise Alert to the end of the section so search engines do not index or display the alert.

> This topic describes how to install Consul Snapshot agent on Kubernetes using the official Helm chart. The Consul Snapshot agent runs as a service, and takes snapshots of the state of the Consul servers. These snapshots can be saved locally, or pushed to optional remote storage services. The snapshots are atomic and point-in-time. Consul snapshots include, but are not limited to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic describes how to install the Consul Snapshot agent on Kubernetes using the official Helm chart. The Consul Snapshot agent runs as a service and takes snapshots of the state of the Consul servers. The snapshots are atomic and point-in-time. The Consul Snapshot agent can save these snapshots locally or push to optional remote storage services. Consul snapshots include, but are not limited to, the following:
```

Style nit: Replace passive voice with active voice

- Key/Value Store Entries
- Service Catalog Registrations

> - Prepared Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Key/Value store entries
- Service catalog registrations
- Prepared queries
```

- Sessions
- Access Control Lists (ACLs)
- Namespaces

You need the Consul Snapshot agent to automate taking the snapshots. You do not need the agent to restore a snapshot.

## Requirements

> The snapshot agent must be run within the Consul cluster, and is required to be co-located with Consul servers, inheriting the servers’ nodeSelector, tolerations and affinity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must run the Consul Snapshot agent within the Consul cluster, co-located with the Consul servers and inheriting the servers’ nodeSelector, tolerations, and affinity.
```

> If the Consul ACL system is bootstrapped and active, you will need to create a token for your Snapshot agent. The following is a permissive example policy for a Consul Snapshot agent token. To learn how to create a token with this configuration, refer to [Create a snapshot agent token](/consul/docs/secure/acl/token/snapshot-agent).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Consul ACL system is bootstrapped and active, you need to create a token for your Consul Snapshot agent. The following is a permissive example policy for a Consul Snapshot agent token. To learn how to create a token with this configuration, refer to [Create a snapshot agent token](/consul/docs/secure/acl/token/snapshot-agent).
```

```hcl
# used for snapshot agent leader election
key_prefix "" {
  policy = "write"
}

# used for registering the snapshot agent service
service_prefix "" {
  policy = "write"
}

# used for snapshot agent leader election
session_prefix "" {
  policy = "write"
}

# used for registering the snapshot agent node
node_prefix "" {
  policy = "write"
}

acl = "write"
```

## Configuration

> The following is an empty example configuration for the Consul snapshot agent. All fields are optional. For more information on each field, refer to the [Consul Snapshot agent configuration file options](/consul/commands/snapshot/agent#config-file-options).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an empty example configuration for the Consul Snapshot agent. All fields are optional. For more information on each field, refer to the [Consul Snapshot agent configuration file options](/consul/commands/snapshot/agent#config-file-options).
```

          "sts_endpoint": "",
          "s3_region": "",
          "s3_endpoint": "",
          "s3_bucket": "",
          "s3_key_prefix": "consul-snapshot"
        }
      ],
      "azure_blob_storage": [
        {
          "account_name": "",
          "account_key": "",
          "container_name": ""
        }
      ],
      "google_storage": [
        {
          "bucket": ""
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## Apply configuration as a Kubernetes Secret

The Consul Snapshot agent configuration may contains sensitive information, such as access keys for various cloud storage backends, as well as Consul ACL tokens. Therefore we recommend keeping this configuration in a Kubernetes secret. Use the following command to create a Kubernetes secret from a local configuration file:

<CodeTabs heading="Create a K8s secret" tabs={["Command structure","Command example"]}>

```shell
kubectl create secret generic <SECRET-NAME> --from-file=<SECRET-KEY>=<PATH-TO-SNAPSHOT-AGENT-CONFIG>
```

```shell
kubectl create secret generic consul-snapshot-agent --from-file=snapshot-agent-config="./consul-snapshot-agent.json"
```

</CodeTabs>

> ## Install Consul Snapshot agent using Helm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Install the Consul Snapshot agent using Helm
```

> Consul Snapshot agent runs as a sidecar with the Consul servers. Make sure you have the Consul Snapshot agent configuration present as a Kubernetes secret, and then modify the following Helm chart values accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Consul Snapshot agent runs as a sidecar with the Consul servers. Make sure you have the Consul Snapshot agent configuration present as a Kubernetes secret, and then modify the following Helm chart values accordingly.
```

> If you are upgrading an existing Consul installation with the Snapshot agent, use the `helm upgrade` command along with the modified Helm chart. If you are performing a new Consul deployment, refer to [Deploy Consul Enterprise on Kubernetes](/consul/docs/deploy/server/k8s/enterprise).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are upgrading an existing Consul installation with the Consul Snapshot agent, use the `helm upgrade` command along with the modified Helm chart. If you are performing a new Consul deployment, refer to [Deploy Consul Enterprise on Kubernetes](/consul/docs/deploy/server/k8s/enterprise).
```
